Project managers are in high demand. In 2017, a study by the Project Management Institute found that by the year 2027, employers will need 87.7 million people filling project management-aligned roles. According to that same study, the industries with the most growth are manufacturing and construction, information services and publishing, management and professional services, finance and insurance, utilities, and oil and gas. Project management plays a big part in helping all of these industries grow. In some industries, you will find the term "project manager" grouped with a more industry-specific qualifying word. For example: "construction project manager" or "IT project manager," or "engineering project manager." Don't worry. These are all still project manager roles—they're just specific to an industry. And it's important to keep in mind that the skills you learn in one industry can be applied to another industry.

By now, you might have noticed that you already have some of those skills, like organizing or planning an event, problem-solving, or even managing a budget, and you use them effectively in your everyday life.

The beauty of project management is that you don't need to be an expert on a focused technical topic— you just need to be able to manage projects. You could be a construction or technology project manager, or you could enter the healthcare industry and work in patient management. You could also enter the energy sector and act as an environmental project manager. The possibilities are almost endless.

In this case, the role may not be described as a project manager, but instead something a little more evergreen, like "operations manager" or "program manager." Other titles that might make sense for you can include "operations assistant," "project assistant," "project coordinator," and "program assistant." When it comes to job duties, your responsibilities might change depending on the type of company you choose.

Another path you can take is contract work. Working for companies on a contract means you'll work with them on a project-by-project basis, but you won't be a full-time employee. This kind of work is a great way to get your foot in the door and build your portfolio. Plus, it gives you the flexibility to try your hand at a few different projects at once, depending on the commitment level required for that. Another benefit of contracting is that it lets you explore different kinds of companies and project types. Since it's a temporary position, you can explore what type of company is the best fit for you. Maybe you find you like working with a large or a small team, or you find you enjoy specific types of projects. And if you find a situation that suits you and the organization, your contract position might just lead to a full-time position. As you keep charging forward, try thinking about the type of job you might be interested in going after when we're done here. Every new topic you discover brings you one step closer to your first role in project management, and one step closer to where you want to be.
