What is project management?
A project, is a unique endeavor, and usually includes a set of unique deliverables. It's also a temporary pursuit. It has a defined beginning and an end. 
project management is the application of knowledge, skills, tools, and techniques to meet the project requirements and achieve the desired outcome.

Why is project management an important part of an organization? 

Project management is valuable to businesses because it helps ensure that a project delivers the expected outcomes, both on time and within budget.

PM’s job added value to the company through the core aspects of project management- planning and originating, managing tasks, and budgeting the controlling costs. 

How is it vital to a project's success? 
More and more companies are starting to understand how project management can save them lots of money and time. Poor project management can lead to trillions of wasted dollars every year for organizations around the world. More specifically, poor project management can lead to 48 percent of projects missing delivery dates, 43 percent missing budget targets, and 31 percent failing to meet an organization's goals.

Example:
Imagine a school district signs a deal with a telehealth company to make sure students don't have to miss school for simple health issues, like fevers or headaches. The deal will be completed by the end of the school year. The students can now interact with the doctor through a tablet, smartphone, or a computer, while they're at school. Implementing this technology into the school's procedures is the project. It's got a clear outcome and start and end date. So, how is that project managed? Well, this project has several tasks, and each one has to be carefully planned out and tracked, or managed, in order for the project to be completed. For example, to start you can organize training sessions for faculty to get them better acquainted with the technology, policies, and procedures. You can budget for tablets, computers, and other vital equipment to facilitate the virtual checkups. You can maintain strong communication with doctors, the telehealth company, and school staff members and so much more. To successfully launch the product in the schools all of those things need to get done. 
